He also, in his own words, married a woman from Kensington, whom he assigns to this group, in a sense, speaking as a white man. In response to his shallow conclusions, I gleaned information by conversations with two respected academics, one in economics, the other a teacher, both of who, like me, bear this ethnic label. The result is a love letter that could be addressed to one of our kind. Thanks for this, Nick and Willem. Dear coloured parent Our laaities are dying... Our laaities are dying because 5-year-old Joshua was never taught to respect his elders. Our laaitjies are dying because it was cute when 2-year-old Chad learnt his first swear word. They are dying because when teachers sent rude Kyle home, Mommy came to school to defend her baby... We are dying coz in Grade 4 daddy told me to go back and fight Keenan, “Don’t leave it like that...” instead of just teaching me how to walk away Our laaities are dying coz mommy buys 10-year-old Jade the most expensive takkies just to make up for not always being around... They are dying because Uncle Shaun couldn’t discipline Raldo... “You are not his father, leave my child alone.” Our laaities are dying because self-respect went out the window... Our laaities are dying not because we are stupid, or have no ambition, or want to live like that... Coloured parent, our laaities are dying because we never had good role models to look up to... This epistle contains many of the errors that compounded our misery. We can no longer blame the cruelties of the past for having neglected taking the fight directly to the cause of our misery. The text refers to the inherited condition and acceptance of the ignominy that included being named after a day of the week, or a month, by the white masters who believed that we were inferior beings who could be exploited and brutalised willy-nilly because our skins were dark. Our efforts at claiming the freedom and privileges of our emancipated state have reduced to accusation, protest and destruction. We should, instead, start at the grass roots level of the primary school and restructure a new race not based on an ethnic construct, but on the great humanist principles and behavioural norms that have fashioned great nations. The suggestions for achieving this are embedded in the text. I hope we start a dialogue that will trigger new growth. We have lost 25 years not redefining relevance. The time is now. * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. He can be contacted on email by actabisher@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus  Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to (arglet@inl.co.za) or iolletters@inl.co.za All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication. IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.