Johannesburg - A video about Finance Minister Tito Mboweni's alleged encounter with Pretoria student Lerato Makgatho has South Africans scratching their heads at his supposed sexual stamina. The video was posted on Twitter on Thursday and shows Makgatho ostensibly explaining why she decided to approach the media regarding her "affair" with Mboweni. Makgatho told the Sunday World newspaper that she had dallied with both Mboweni and Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe. The same newspaper also revealed that Mantashe claimed to have paid two of their journalists R70 000 to suppress a story about his sexual relationship with Makgatho. The minister eventually retracted the statement after meeting with the South African National Editors Forum (Sanef). Sunday World editor Makhudu Sefara also demanded an apology from Mantashe after subjecting his reporters to lie detector tests. In the video, Makgatho explains that she decided to tell her story to Sunday World because someone was blackmailing the ministers. She says that she is not currently in a relationship with either minister and that she and Mboweni "broke up" last November. Makgatho also went on to boast about both men's sexual prowess, even claiming that Mantashe was a "tiger"in bed.     Lerato Habiba Makgatho says Tito Mboweni is not weak in bed, he can do 6 rounds 😳 while Gwede Mantashe is still the tiger 🐅 pic.twitter.com/JsofSrzmo4 It was Makgatho's assertion that Mboweni is not "bad" in bed because the last time they slept together he lasted for "six rounds" that had Twitter users in disbelief though. Many questioned how such a feat was even possible. Here are some of their reactions:     Only chickens do ama #6Rounds Tigers will give you 1 round enobu 6 rounds nyana. pic.twitter.com/DKDlvIQYy2      I’m going to need the whole week to achieve that #6Rounds pic.twitter.com/v85wk0tpNe      Do you think Lerato understands the difference between strokes and rounds #6Rounds pic.twitter.com/EE76KZFfwb      If you know your story in bed then #6Rounds is an exaggeration. I mean the 2nd round consists of 2 more rounds on its own judging by the time it takes. So u6 rounds I think owama qhude, lezi zeEarly ejaculation. pic.twitter.com/WurzfYt4zp  What if she meant that he lasted for 6 seconds not #6Rounds. pic.twitter.com/Kp21Ahe0k1      #6rounds parliament is now a den of sex masters where we discuss libido issues when the economy is in shumbles pic.twitter.com/wmSLtI6NPe