Cape Town - Thousands of rugby fans in Langa, Belhar and Elsies River came out in their numbers to witness the final leg of the South African rugby team’s victory tour after winning the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. This comes after the winning team made their way through Cape Town CBD's streets. The victory parade kicked off with a mini-concert at City Hall and the Grand Parade. A massive crowd gathered in front of the City Hall on Monday morning ahead of an appearance from the Springboks.  Cape Town is the final leg of the team's victory tour, and they are expected to celebrate with thousands of supporters in some parts of the metro, after rousing welcomes in the north of the country. On Friday, Cape Town Mayor Dan Plato said the city has worked with the South African Rugby Union, to put together a fitting celebration for the team as well as the millions of fans who supported them during the tournament. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Residents and motorists are alerted Darling Street between Buitenkant and Lower Plein streets are closed until 3pm. The Springboks were on Friday doing their trophy tour in KwaZulu-Natal after Pretoria, Johannesburg and Soweto. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  On Saturday, thousands of Buffalo City residents in East London came out in support of the champion’s victory tour.  Residents packed the streets, wearing Springboks colours, and singing, ululating, blowing vuvuzelas, and waving South African flags. Some stood on rooftops, on balconies, and on top of cars to catch a glimpse of the team. The tour moved to Port Elizabeth on Sunday before the final leg in Cape Town. African News Agency (ANA)