JOHANNESBURG – Black Friday, although an American shopping tradition, gets bigger every year in South Africa. In just a few years, it has disrupted sales trends and patterns, changed consumer shopping habits, and forced businesses to rethink their year-end sales strategies and processes. This year will be the biggest Black Friday yet. And since it falls after pay day, on 29 November, consumers will have more discretionary income to spend – and they’ve been saving for this day for months. Spending spree Last year, each consumer spent, on average, R1 700 on 4.5 products. Most of these sales happened between 8am and 11am. Yet small businesses struggled to compete. They reported a 10 percent drop in revenue and a 2 percent drop in sales volume, despite a remarkable 1 952 percent increase in total Black Friday sales. The reality is, few small businesses can match the inventory levels, buying power, or budgets of bigger businesses. Rather than trying to keep up, they should view Black Friday as an opportunity to attract new customers, delight existing ones, and focus on creating exceptional experiences. To prepare your small business for the big day, answer these questions: Is your technology up to the task? More consumers opt to shop from their couches to avoid in-store chaos. But nothing ruins the experience faster than slow websites, limited stock, and confusing payment processes. As a small business, you might not have the budget or flexibility to scale your technology on demand, but there are other ways to reduce pressure on your systems.   What vibe will you create? Black Friday and Cyber Monday is as much about the experience as it is about the amazing deals. Create a vibe that draws people to your small business:   This way, you’re not discounting your products or services, but you are giving customers more value for their money. And when customers feel valued, they tell other people: 96% of customers say customer service determines their brand loyalty, and loyal customers are five times more likely to purchase again and four times more likely to refer a friend. How will you prepare? Consumers know what they’re looking for on Black Friday. When they find it, they’ll want to bag it and move on to the next item on their list. Your technology, processes, and people should work together seamlessly to enable this. Here are some ways to do that;   Black Friday is an opportunity for small businesses to win customers for life. Implementing alternate strategies can help your business benefit from Black Friday and uncover opportunities to provide a seamless customer experience, from browsing, through ordering, tracking, purchasing, and after-sales service. Viresh Harduth is cice president of Small Business at Sage Africa & Middle East. BUSINESS REPORT