The Hague, Netherlands - The International Criminal Court sentenced a Congolese warlord known as "The Terminator" to 30 years imprisonment Thursday after he was convicted of crimes including murder, rape and sexual slavery. The sentence was the highest ever passed by the global court. Bosco Ntaganda was found guilty in July of 18 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity for his role as a military commander in atrocities in a bloody ethnic conflict in a mineral-rich region of Congo in 2002-2003. Ntaganda showed no emotion as Presiding Judge Robert Fremr passed sentences ranging from eight years to 30 years for individual crimes and an overarching sentence of 30 years. The court's maximum sentence is 30 years, although judges also have the discretion to impose a life sentence. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Ida Sawyer, deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Africa division, welcomed the ruling. "Bosco Ntaganda's 30-year sentence sends a strong message that even people considered untouchable may one day be held to account," Sawyer said. "While his victims' pain cannot be erased, they can take some comfort in seeing justice prevail." Ntaganda, who has always insisted he is innocent, became a symbol for widespread impunity in Africa in some seven years between first being indicted by the global court and finally turning himself in in 2013 as his powerbase fell apart. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The International Criminal Court Videographic on the International Criminal Court. International Criminal Court judges on Monday convicted Congolese rebel chief Bosco "Terminator" Ntaganda of war crimes including directing massacres of civilians and rape, in a badly-needed victor... Judges at his trial said he was guilty as a direct perpetrator or a co-perpetrator of a string of crimes including murders, rapes of men and women, a massacre in a banana field behind a building called The Paradiso and of enlisting and using child soldiers. Child soldiers also were raped by Ntaganda's troops and forced into sexual slavery, leaving them with lasting physical and psychological scars. Ntaganda himself used child soldiers as bodyguards. He testified for weeks in his own defense, saying he wanted to put the record straight about his reputation as a ruthless military leader, but was unable to convince the three-judge panel of his innocence. Ntaganda was the deputy chief of staff and commander of operations for rebel group the Patriotic Forces for the Liberation of Congo. The force's leader, Thomas Lubanga, was convicted by the ICC in 2012 of using child soldiers. He is serving a 14-year prison sentence. Ntaganda earned a higher sentence because he was convicted of far more crimes. He has 30 days to appeal against his sentence. AP