Johannesburg - After a full week of speculation, the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) finally confirmed reports that SABC 3’s Isidingo was cancelled, and many on social media were left heartsore by the news. The show which has been on TV for 21 years, is expected air its final episode on March 12, 2020. “The decision to decommission Isidingo was informed by a number of factors which includes poor audience ratings during the time slot, decline in revenue and poor return on investment," SABC acting group executive: television, David Makubyane said. "The organisation was faced with no option but to review the performance of all programmes on the channel that are not performing and to ensure that the channel’s content is competitive and commercially viable.” SABC said that in line with the channel’s future strategic direction, Isidingo was one of the programmes that would not be recommissioned for the new fiscal from April 2020. Many on social media were sharing their memories of the show, how it affected them and what they will remember the show for:     The end of an Era.The SABC has axed Isidingo after 21 years on our screens. The soapie will air its final episode continue on March 12th 2020.     #Isidingo will always be legendary for producing this complex, murderous ambitions we love to hate villainCheryl De Villers Haines Le Roux Holmes pic.twitter.com/KOY7LF4wxh     I will always appreciate Isidingo for how it pushed the queer agenda. It gave us queer representation in a meaningful way and really helped start conversations in our households.From Steve's gay wedding to the infamous threesome with Len, Nandipha and Johnny it did the things. pic.twitter.com/mGtiSdurdS     Makes the 2 of us.I am really hurt and sad. #Isidingo     What is happening to Isidingo is a reflection of what is happening to SABC as a Broadcaster, if u don't invest in good content definitely u gonna bleed viewers.     First Top Billing and now Isidingo 💔 SABC will never be the same     #IsidingoIsidingo is one of those few soapies that have good acting production and story line although they slip sometimes plot wise     Let's not forget these queens 😭😭😭😭 #Isidingo pic.twitter.com/oXxMCAzn8t     In all honesty, Isidingo can go. It fell off a very long time ago,     Further, it is the ONLY SOAPIE in SA that can have a scene in it that covers something that happened in real life within South Africa (24 hrs turn around time).It's a those small scenes that make me appreciate the show that much more.#Isidingo     I still believe Isidingo would do better on another channel. Maybe I’m wrong - but they could have tested that first. Their story line is way apart and better than some of SABC 1’s most watched show. https://t.co/7FwSPGKnMR