Cape Town - South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa has concluded a working visit to Brasilia in Brazil where he participated in the 11th BRICS Summit, the presidency said on Friday. At the conclusion of his visit, Ramaphosa stressed that the leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa have affirmed their shared commitment to a strong multilateral system that is properly governed. The President said this commitment, along with BRICS’ stated intent to promote trade among member states and play a key role in the growth of the world economy, constituted a notable positive outcome for the summit which was themed “BRICS: Economic Growth for an Innovative Future”, held on November 13 and 14. BRICS is an association of five major emerging countries, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, which together represent about 42 percent of the global population, 23 percent of global GDP, 30 percent of the planet’s territory and 18 percent of global trade. Ramaphosa said benefits arising from BRICS membership were evident across all partner countries with South Africa playing host to Brazilian bus manufacturers, Russian train manufacturers, Indian automotive companies and Chinese machinery producers. “Each of the BRICS countries has South African fruit and vegetables on their tables, buildings constructed from South African metals and factories fitted with South African machinery and electronics,” he said. Ramaphosa attributed these benefits to the BRICS strategy for economic partnership and the work of the BRICS Business Council. He said the Council promoted economic growth, especially through intra-BRICS trade and was able to identify nodes of economic growth. In this regard, the President stated the Council had already identified a number of projects in infrastructure development, agriculture, renewable energy, agro processing, mining and a range of other projects that would positively influence the economies of BRICS countries, according to the office of the president. He further said that the council would ensure the New Development Bank or financial institutions financed these projects. The president also tabled the formation of the New Development Bank as another notable positive outcome of the BRICS association, as demonstrated by the bank’s strong capital base and projects already underway in all member states, with South Africa allocated $2.5 billion. During the visit, Ramaphosa was accompanied by First Lady Tshepo Motsepe, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Naledi Pandor, Minister of Trade and Industry Ebrahim Patel, Minister of Health Zwelini Mkhize and Minister of State Security Ayanda Dlodlo. African News Agency (ANA)