With the festive season around the corner, millions of South African motorists will take to the roads to get to their desired holiday destination. Good Hope Tyres brings you 7 tips on when to change, repair and maintain your tyres to ensure a safe journey Make sure your loved ones are safe this festive season; bring your vehicle to any of our Goodhope Tyres branches and let our trained technicians perform a FREE tyre check. Tyre care and maintenance tips: Correct tyre maintenance will ensure your tyre performs at its best and enjoys a long life. In this article we list important tyre checks and regular maintenance procedures that you need to be aware of. 1) What is the right tyre pressure? Look at your vehicle’s owner’s manual to check the correct pressure for your tyres. Regularly check to see if your tyre pressure is correct, as this will assist in better fuel consumption and reduce tyre wear. To get an accurate reading, always perform tyre pressure checks when tyres are cold. 2) What is the correct tyre tread depth? Inspect your tyres regularly and ensure the tyre tread depth is not less than 1.6mm. Driving with worn-out tyres increases the chances of tyre failure which could result in an accident. 3) When do I rotate my tyres? For extended tyre-life and to ensure your tread wears evenly, rotate your tyres every 5 000 or 10 000km. It’s also best to have your wheel alignment and wheel balancing done when rotating. 4) Time to have your wheels balanced Unbalanced tyres can result in premature damage to your tyres and suspension. Have your wheels checked for balancing if you experience vibrations from your wheels whilst driving or if you plan on having your tyres rotated. 5) Have your wheels aligned If your vehicle veers to the left or right, then you probably need to have your wheels aligned. Alignment should be checked every 10,000km at a professional tyre service centre. Other signs that you may require wheel alignment could be uneven or premature tyre wear. 6) Repair and replacement Always have your tyres inspected by a reputable tyre service centre if you suspect tyre damage or if you think your tyre needs replacement. 7) Don't forget or neglect your spare tyre The most important or oft forgotten accessory in your vehicle. Regularly check your spare tyre to ensure it’s ready in emergencies. Always check if you have all the tools on hand to replace your damaged tyre. Visit Goodhope Tyres for the best deals on tyres and wheels, and a range of complementary tyre services. Save up to 40% off selected tyres on the Black Friday 2-Day Super Sale from the 29-30 November 2019. For more information visit www.goodhopetyres.co.za