JOHANNESBURG – The Minister of Trade and Industry, ​​on April 9, 2019, signed four amendments to the Amended Generic B-BBEE Codes of 2013. These amendments were gazetted on May 31, 2019 and will come into effect on November 31 2019. The noteworthy amendments to the Codes are highlighted below: Amendments to Amended Codes Series 000: General Principles   Amendments to Amended Code Series 300: Skills Development   Amendments to Amended Code Series 400: Enterprise and Supplier Development (including Preferential Procurement)   The amendments to this element of the generic scorecard are likely to act as a catalyst for the implementation of 51% Black ownership transactions. Importantly, the structuring of these transactions could not be reliant on the modified flow-through principle, if the full benefits of the proposed amendments are to be reaped. Amendments to the Schedule 1 to the Codes which contains the interpretation and definitions sections Most of the changes to Schedule 1 are aesthetic in nature and aimed at neatening up some of the definitions used in the Codes. However, some more noteworthy changes include: The term "Absorption" for purposes of the Y.E.S B-BBEE recognition targets and the Skills Development bonus points is no longer confined to Learners. It now includes employees, interns and apprentices. The new defined term, "Designated Group Supplier", has been introduced. It refers to a supplier that is not only 51% Black owned but also owned by unemployed Black people, Black youth, Black people with disabilities; black people living in rural and underdeveloped areas and/or Black military veterans. This term was not previously defined. Its introduction provides clarity on how to earn the 2 points on the preferential procurement scorecard to procure from a Designated Group Supplier. The fifth criteria to qualify as an "Empowering Supplier" which was introduced in May 2015 has been deleted. This read "at least 85% of labour costs should be paid to South African employees by service industry entities". Now large enterprises must comply with three out of the four remaining elements to qualify as an Empowering Supplier. The term "long-term contract of employment", defined as "a legal agreement between an individual and an entity that this individual would work for until his or her mandatory date of retirement", has been introduced. This relates to the definition of the term "Absorption". The introduction of a definition of "Current Equity Interest Date" clarifies the determination of the graduation factor calculation for "Net Value". Adam Ismail, Candice Meyer, Safiyya Patel, are partners at Webber Wentzel. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE