DURBAN - Samsung Electronics today announced the Notebook 7 and Notebook 7 Force, two sleek new devices crafted in Samsung’s compact yet delicate “solidity” design with serious speed and power. The slim and portable Notebook 7 includes diamond-cut edges and a near bezel-less display, with enhanced comfort and usability features that make it ideal for everyday use. Built for content creators and consumers who want superior performance from their PC, the Notebook 7 Force comes with next-generation graphics and expandable storage, and offers an immersive viewing experience in a beautiful, solid metal frame. "The new Notebook 7 and Notebook 7 Force blend elegant design with impressive power and top-notch speed to give consumers an unparalleled experience. These devices expand our portfolio in new directions, giving consumers the opportunity to pick the device that perfectly suits their lifestyle," said said Young Gyoo Choi, Senior Vice President of the PC Business Team, Mobile Communications Business at Samsung Electronics. Samsung Notebook 7 Available in 13” and 15” models, the Notebook 7 features a gorgeous glass display in full HD and slim body that can easily be carried wherever you need to go. The device’s screen is superb with a high screen-to-body ratio and barely noticeable bezels that provide a premium viewing experience, so whether you’re watching a movie during the day, or working late into the night, everything is crystal clear. Samsung Notebook 7 Force` Whether you’re editing videos, streaming a movie in high-resolution, or even playing your favorite video game, the Notebook 7 Force delivers a supercharged PC experience. It features NVDIA’s latest GeForce® GTX™ 1650 graphics, enabling up to 70 percent faster speeds than the previous generation GTX, and lets users run demanding graphic apps with ease. The Notebook 7 Force’s expandable storage system and lightning quick file-reading capabilities, you can manage files and apps with maximum efficiency, as well as its Gigabit Wi-Fi that lets you connect, download and upload at speed2. Both the Notebook 7 and the Notebook 7 Force feature a brand-new, eye-catching design. Despite its solid metal frame, the Notebook 7 Force measures just 17.9mm in thickness, making it durable and light. Alongside the Notebook 7, you can enjoy a truly immersive PC experience, including a distraction-free full HD display, stunning brightness and a wide viewing angle that brings content to life. Both devices also bring sound to life with amazing Dolby Atmos® audio that enriches the entertainment and puts you at the heart of the action. A reengineered Lattice keyboard and ultra-wide Precision Touchpad let you effortlessly navigate and multitask with laser accuracy. And the Notebook 7 and Notebook 7 Force allow you to intuitively and securely log in to your device with just a tap of a finger. .tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;border-color:#aabcfe;}
.tg td{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:#aabcfe;color:#669;background-color:#e8edff;}
.tg th{font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;font-weight:normal;padding:10px 5px;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;overflow:hidden;word-break:normal;border-color:#aabcfe;color:#039;background-color:#b9c9fe;}
.tg .tg-uys7{border-color:inherit;text-align:center}
.tg .tg-0pky{border-color:inherit;text-align:left;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-xldj{border-color:inherit;text-align:left}
.tg .tg-0lax{text-align:left;vertical-align:top}  BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE