CAPE TOWN – Kaspersky Lab in celebration of Human Rights day on the 21st of March believe that South Africans need to consider that we are functioning in a world continually shaped by technology and should consider their right to IT security and online protection in the digital age David Emm, Principal Security Researcher at Kaspersky Lab said in an email response to Business Report: " In this digitally driven world, we entrust our personal information with many online providers today – just think about all the applications and online websites you make use of, daily." "Given that our data holds massive value about who we are, it is our right to ensure that it is protected. We need to know that these companies are looking after our data, to not only avoid a possible data breach scenario but to ensure that our data does not end up in the wrong hands which can comprise our credentials, reputation and information." Kaspersky lists practical steps that technology consumers and users can implement, to ensure further protection:   Emm explains that as parents/guardians should also consider the safety of their children when it comes to protecting their data online. "As Internet-connected devices become more common, for work, play or school assignments, it can become more difficult for parents or guardian to protect their children from the numerous threats they could potentially face while online. Of course, as parents/guardians we need to put some processes in place to ensure our children are protected," said Emm. Kaspersky Lab offers the following tips for parents:   " People have the right to be protected online, but they also have the human right of responsibility too. We encourage people to act responsibly online. This means being careful about what you post, share and say online. Further to this, it means not engaging in or participating in the online activity that is abusive or dangerous, that could cause harm. It is our responsibility to ensure we act appropriately online and encourage others to do the same – to ensure a safe digital space for everyone," said Emm. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE