CAPE TOWN – Uber announced today that is has partnered with Discovery to offer access to quality and affordable private healthcare cover for driver-partners and their families, on a voluntary basis. This new healthcare cover for driver-partners has been brandedDriver Care and is powered by Discovery’s Primary Care Activate product. This cover includes out-of-hospital care such as unlimited GP consultations, optometry benefits and cover for day-to-day prescription medicines as well as access to emergency private healthcare services for traumatic events. Ro'i Ehrlich, Business Development for Sub Saharan Africa said in a statement: “We are working hard every day to find innovative solutions to make a difference in the lives of driver-partners. Partnerships such as these will ensure that they have access to affordable private healthcare services, as their health is a priority while they continue to grow their businesses.” As part of the partnership, driver-partners will have access to a literacy programme which will be led by highly skilled consultants to provide education on the importance of leading a healthy lifestyle while on the road. These sessions will be held at the various Uber Greenlight Hubs situated in all cities that Uber operates in across South Africa. Should driver-partners decide to purchase Driver Care, they will be fully covered for the following healthcare services which will cost R216 for driver-partners and an additional prescribed amount for adult dependents and children under the age of 21. “Discovery believes passionately in the value of affordable, quality primary care products which meet a very real need for families who are not able to afford medical scheme membership”, said Head of Discovery Primary Care, Nonkululeko Pitje. Discovery will offer drivers that purchase Driver Care the following value-added benefits:     While Driver Care is not a medical scheme and is not intended as a substitute for medical scheme membership, it offers drivers and their families’ primary healthcare cover to ensure they have the peace of mind that their basic healthcare needs are covered. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE