JOHANNESBURG – By now, anybody remotely interested in South Africa's economy will be aware of National Treasury's recently released draft-policy document on an economic strategy for South Africa. It focuses on economic transformation, inclusive growth and competitiveness, and invites public discussions and input until mid-September. The way it collates our challenges and avenues to redirect South Africa’s economic path should be lauded. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni’s document paints a startling picture of South Africa's dire economy, and identifies various ways to turn the tide. My input looks at three key areas:   The document's proposed solutions are reasonable, but the real challenge remains implementation. Will the same bureaucratic institutions that exist today be mandated to implement the same reform? Will the Public Finance Management Act be used to adjudicate SMEs and large corporates? Are there measures that will be put in place to ensure implementation? And are there repercussions for non-implementation? I agree with the document's proposed idea of charging interest as a penalty on late payments to SMEs. But in nearly every problematic economic scenario, there will be winners and losers. The fact remains that the country at large will be the ultimate winner if the above three points are taken into careful consideration when implementing the policy document. South Africa must also bring its losers to the table and find incentives for them to participate or else they could derail any economic plan. The inequality and poverty challenges must be front and centre of the document, and any policy developed for implementation must be aligned to economically rescuing the most poor and vulnerable, and creating an equal society. The private sector should also play its part in ensuring increased and better collaboration with start-ups. The public sector must also do more in terms of impactful programmes, technical support and viable funding mechanisms. Now’s the time to heed the words of the king of rock ’n roll: “A little less conversation, a little more action.” Kizito Okechukwu is co-chair of the Global Entrepreneurship Network (GEN) Africa; 22 on Sloane is Africa’s largest start-up campus. BUSINESS REPORT