PARLIAMENT - The government will soon make announcements on the redistribution of state land for agricultural purposes, Deputy President David Mabuza told the National Council of Provinces on Wednesday. Mabuza said the government was not only looking into speeding up restitution of farmland but also redistributing land to emerging farmers and to this end it was looking at state-owned land and drafting qualifying criteria for beneficiaries. "We are looking at land in the hands of government that we are going to redistribute to people to grow, to plant. Very soon we are going to make announcements on how we are going to redistribute with the necessary support." Mabuza made the comments while replying to questions of the government's land reform programme in the NCOP. He conceded that in the recent past emerging farmers who were beneficiaries of restituted and redistributed land had failed to farm successfully and said this was a function of inadequate support from the state. "Our support has been erratic," he said. "There have been weaknesses in the manner we support small farmers. This resulted in a number of small farmers failing." He said in some cases beneficiaries received productive farms but failed to keep them going, in part because farmer support measures were not well coordinated between the national and provincial governments. "It is free money that we give to a farmer. In all provincial departments, there is money for farmer support, free of charge, that goes to farmers. The only snag here is that the things that national government and provincial governments were doing were not coordinated." Mabuza said government wanted to go as far as making sure there were receptive markets for what emerging farmers produce "so they don't struggle to find markets". He suggested the state could adopt a policy that all vegetables bought for state hospitals and school nutrition programmes be sourced from emerging farmers, instead of from commercial farmers as was the case currently. "We are going to give a package of support to those people we give land to." African News Agency (ANA)