CAPE TOWN - South Africa will this week host more than 50 state leaders at the 28th World Economic Forum (WEF) to be held Cape Town from the 4th to the 6th of September 2019. WEF is expected to address many challenges faced by these 50 nations such as elections taking place in more than 20 African countries, whether political and economic progress has been created, how to scale up the transformation of regional architecture related to smart institutions, investment, integration, industry and innovation. Under the theme, Shaping comprehensive Growth and Shared Futures within the Fourth historic period, the forum will address the African Union’s Agenda 2063 regional strategic priorities below four program tracks:   WEF is a self-sufficient, international organization whose aim is to contribute to a number of positive outcomes within the world by focusing on business, political leaders, academia and alternative leaders of society. The discussions will also focus on key industries and the launch of the first African Affiliate Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution in South Africa. One major risk of this year's event is the sharp drop-off in world trade growth, which fell from over 5 percent at the beginning of 2018 to just about zero at the end. With the anticipated increase in trade conflicts, a contraction in world trade might drag down on the world economy even more. There are 54 heads of states across the globe are invited and 6 have already confirmed their attendance. A number of ministers (Foreign Affairs and Finance) from different countries are also expected to attend this event, however, the numbers are not yet confirmed. Helping guide talks on Africa’s regional priorities are:    In addition to these speakers, every year the organization seeks out young change-makers within the graft, that use their insights and the potential to improve the state of the world. Here are some of the 2019 Class of Young Global Leaders who will be expected to attend:    WATCH: To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 