Centurion Mall welcomes existing and prospective customers to their new-look centre, a super-regional mall that is the result of a successful revamp that also places one of South Africa’s most popular shopping destinations in line with 21st century customisations. The mall boasts over 200 stores; anchor tenants include a Woolworths, Pick n Pay, Game, Dis-Chem, Clicks, Checkers, which is now a new concept Blue Flag store and various national fashion tenants. New addition H&M is joined by other fashion newcomers, John Craig and Refinery while Poetry, The Hub, Checkers and Ster-Kinekor have been wonderfully renovated; Ster-Kinekor has added a Kids’ Cinema, a child-friendly facility that includes a waiting area. Fashion The fashion walk houses national retailers with the latest in style wear for men and women. The stores here include Truworths Emporium, where you can shop for a variety of accessories, cosmetics and fashion from all the famous brands, including Truworths LTD (LTD man, LTD Woman and LTD Kids), Earthaddict, Ginger Mary (women’s fashion), Daniel Hechter (unisex), UZZI (men’s) and Earthchild (kids). For the fun crowd there’s Cotton On, including Cotton On Kids and Cotton On Body. Foschini carries possibly anything the fashionable woman could want, from formal to casual wear with friendly service while Forever New boasts exquisite feminine fashion and the latest styles with personalised service. Look no further than Markham for men’s fashion as they have marvellous ranges in shoes, jackets and shorts, to name a few. As for Edgars, they offer a wide variety of skincare and cosmetics at various beauty counters such as Mac, Bobby Brown, Clarins, Yungskin and Clinique to name a few. Sportscene is there to meet the needs of those who like their fashion active. They have the latest trends in international brands such as Fila, Converse, Puma, Nike and lots more. There’s also an extremely wide range of value fashion offering. From Mr. Tekkie, Pick n Pay Clothing, Jet, to Mr Price and Ackermans, catering to men, women and kids. For the ladies, Judy’s Fashion and The Fix are a must see for their exciting lines. Anton Smit sculpture park a highlight The infusion of the Anton Smit sculpture park throughout the mall’s open-air area is one of the most refreshing aspects of the new-look mall. It integrates six pieces by the world-famous sculptor, an art deco children’s play sculpture and statues of the new mall mascot. Pietermaritzburg-born Smit was featured at this year’s SCOPE Art Fair in New York and his works have been exhibited in art capitals including Sydney, Milan, Amsterdam and Bonn, to list only a few. Food & Entertainment Centurion Mall has lined up a roster of free entertainment for September to ensure that this Spring will be like no other for visitors to the mall. There will be a host of amazing competitions, great specials and highly anticipated open-air broadcasts by none other than Jacaranda FM. Newly upgraded food courts, situated on the lower ground [river facing] and ground floor Checkers, offer various restaurant and fast food options including Ocean Basket, Spur, Mochachos, O’Galitos, Chicken Licken, Wimpy, Fournos and more! Services Centurion Mall offers shoppers 3 hours unlimited WiFi and Connect @ Centurion Mall, on the lower ground near Entrance 9, is one example of the mall’s striving to provide convenience and to make the mall a veritable one-stop centre by supplying appointed recharge stations and furnishings that ensures your communication remains uninterrupted. You may also check out the chat-bot feature available at www.centurionmall.co.za while here. Chat-bot will source information for you at your request or direct you to the relevant personnel should it fail to do so. Situated at the food court area on the lower ground, the Ark-Aid electronic gaming arcade offers entertainment to tweens and teens, and the new kiddies play area underneath the escalators offers play-time for the little ones, all for FREE, whilst parents enjoy an array of wonderful meals available from various restaurants. A Muslim Prayer facility is available at entrance 9 lower floor. Park at Centurion Mall at only R5 for 5 hours and the entire mall is covered by generator power thereby ensuring no prospects of power outages. 