CAPE TOWN – Johnson & Johnson on Thursday announced the winners of the champions of science Africa innovation challenge 2.0 at the World Economic Forum on Africa (WEF) in Cape Town. The six winning businesses and programmes offer bold, entrepreneurial approaches to tackling major healthcare priorities in African communities, including blood delivery, healthcare worker burnout, hearing loss, jaundice, malaria and ultrasound access. A total amount of $300 000 (more than R4 million) will be awarded to the winning teams, along with extensive mentoring and connection network building, to support the expansion and sustainability of the companies and programmes. “The innovation ecosystem in Africa is thriving, and the ideas and energy of its entrepreneurs and innovators have the potential to create transformational change for people across the continent and around the world," said Paul Stoffels, managing director, chief scientific officer and vice chairman of the executive committee at Johnson & Johnson. "The six winners of the Africa innovation challenge 2.0 are addressing major healthcare challenges with novel technology and approaches. We look forward to collaborating with and investing in them as they work to create sustainable businesses and programmes that offer strong benefits to patients, families, healthcare workers and communities in markets across Africa and beyond,” added Stoffels. The challenge received nearly 900 submissions from 39 countries, and the winning businesses and programmes represent outstanding ingenuity and perseverance, as well as a pathway for scaling operations for long-term sustainability. “The World Economic Forum is excited to partner in announcing the winners of the Africa Innovation Challenge 2.0 at this year’s congress, which is focused on innovation, cooperation, growth and stability, critical areas that the challenge embodies,” said Elsie Kanza, head of Africa at the World Economic Forum. “Each of the six winners brings a passion for innovation, a bold sense of purpose and a commitment to the future of their communities and the larger continent. By participation in our meeting, we hope that they will be able to gain knowledge, ideas and connections to help them take their business to the next level as well as inspire leaders to encourage and support future generations of innovators,” added Kanza. “The winners of the first Africa Innovation Challenge have made significant advancements with their businesses, including hiring more workers, accelerating production and securing important patents and trademarks, all part of the ambitions and goals of the Challenge,” said Seema Kumar, vice president, innovation, global public health and science policy communication, Johnson & Johnson. The winners were:   African News Agency (ANA)