CAPE TOWN – Experts on finance comparison site finder.com’s latest monthly Cryptocurrency Predictions Survey have shared their 2019 forecasts for eight of the top 10 coins by market cap, as well as the top three trending coins, Monero, Dogecoin and NEO. Nearly all coins are expected to fall over the next month, with the exception of Cardano and Stellar, which are expected to increase by 43 percent and 84 percent, respectively.   TRON, Dogecoin, and Litecoin are set to experience the greatest drops by February 1, with forecasted falls of 52 percent, 47 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. While nearly all coins are predicted to decrease over the next month, five of these falling coins are anticipated to recover over the next year. This means that over the course of the year a total of seven coins are predicted to increase in value. The coins predicted to see the greatest growth in 2019 are Stellar, Cardano, and Bitcoin, with forecasted growth of 260 percent, 91 percent, and 84 percent, respectively. Bitcoin is splitting opinion among the panellists, with a predicted decrease in value of seven percent this month. However, the panellists expect the coin to recover to $6 947 (R96 349) by years-end. Alisa Gul, chief executive of WishKnish, believes the fact that “the bearish pressure on the global stock market doesn’t seem to have a lasting effect (on price), as does the easing of the difficulty of the validating algorithm” means that “it’s hard right now to see much of a light at the end of this tunnel”. However, Joe Raczynski of JoeTechnologist gives some cause for optimism. While he notes that “many of the institutional players have said they are done with this experiment (publicly)”, this could be a temporary stance because “if there are any dramatic shifts with the economy (the expectation is slightly more likely than not), bitcoin will be a safe haven”. The six panellists in the December Cryptocurrency Predictions Report include:   Jon Ostler, UK chief executive at finder.com says: “December surprised quite a few people, with a lot of coins rising fairly consistently. This has continued to be the case so far in January, although our panellists don’t expect this trend to last for all coins. Past experience in this sector also reminds us that a month of gradual price movements can change in a matter of hours. “It is important that people are aware of the volatile nature of cryptocurrencies. When considering the purchase of cryptocurrency, people should always be prepared to do their own research and decide what’s right based on their personal financial circumstances.” BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE