CAPE TOWN – Managed IT services provider Troye has announced new backup solutions for Microsoft Cloud Platforms. These new Veeam solutions provide Microsoft users with additional data protection, scalability, and enhanced control of their cloud-based data. Veeam, the leader in backup solutions that deliver Cloud Data Management, recently unveiled its NEW version of Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 and previewed cloud-native Veeam Backup for Microsoft Azure with industry-first cloud cost estimator at Microsoft Ignite 2019. The company also gave a sneak peek of a NEW cloud-native data protection solution for Microsoft Azure workloads, Veeam Backup for Microsoft Azure. Troye technical director Kurt Goodall says the NEW Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 v4 offers direct integration with Microsoft’s Azure Blob Storage. "With Office 365, Microsoft is responsible for the uptime of the Office 365 infrastructure, but backup and management of the data is the customer’s responsibility." "Companies that want to keep their Office 365 data in Azure, it gives them a cost-effective, scalable and secure solution to do so. This latest release also adds additional performance improvements for backing up Microsoft SharePoint and OneDrive for Business," he explains. Ease-of-use is built into the new Veeam Backup for Microsoft Azure with turn-key deployment via the Microsoft Azure Marketplace, while powerful recovery capabilities are also delivered with features like file-level recovery for native snapshots and Veeam backups. An industry-first built-in cloud cost estimator tool will provide customers with greater cost controls and savings while integration with Veeam Backup & Replication will allow customers to take control of their cloud data by protecting and managing Azure backups alongside their cloud, virtual and physical data. “With 114% year-over-year growth, Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 continues to be the fastest growing product in Veeam’s history,” said Ratmir Timashev, Co-Founder and Executive Vice President of Sales & Marketing at Veeam. “Just as in the on-premises days with customers backing up and protecting their data, the need persists with SaaS solutions to backup and protect this same critical information. Veeam Backup for Office 365 delivers on this need and with the rapid rise in adoption for Azure we’re seeing across our customer base, Veeam is excited to build from our work with Microsoft and deliver a native backup solution developed specifically for Azure-based workloads,” he adds. NEW Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 v4 enables IT decision makers from cloud-first companies who prefer to store their Office 365 backups in Azure a cloud-optimised solution leveraging cost-efficient Azure Blob Storage for doing so. “As cloud storage becomes increasingly popular as a data backup strategy, Veeam’s support for Azure Blob Storage enables organisations to eliminate the need for on-premises storage, enabling faster RTOs, improving availability, reducing costs and accelerating our customer’s journey to the cloud,” said Tad Brockway, corporate vice president for Azure, Storage, Media and Edge, Microsoft Corp. Significant benefits of the new version include the ability for customers to reduce costs with object storage and only pay for what is consumed; leverage unlimited scalability with unlimited storage capacity; and simplify deployment in the public cloud and no complex planning. Veeam customers will soon be able to extend Veeam Backup & Replication to protect Azure-native instances with the following integrated capabilities:   IDC Research Manager Archana Venkatraman says cloud is seen as the engine for business growth and innovation, and cloud spending across IaaS, SaaS and PaaS continues to grow at a fast rate. “As cloud applications such as Microsoft Office 365 become the centre of business productivity, excluding them from enterprise backup strategy is risky because the customer has the ultimate and exclusive responsibility for all business data wherever they reside.” “Savvy enterprises are beginning to understand the risks of data loss in cloud applications due to ransomware or internal threats such as accidental deletions and identify SaaS data protection as a key priority. They are evaluating cloud-native backup solutions to protect and manage the data sprawl in their new cloud environments,” he concludes. BUSINESS REPORT