Herbalife Nutrition, a premier global nutrition company, has launched the Nutrition for Zero Hunger global initiative, pledging over R30 million to help end world hunger, ensure people have access to good nutrition and address rising obesity. The initiative, with the assistance of nonprofit partners, will focus on providing access to healthy foods, improving nutrition education, identifying sustainable food resources and raising awareness of the global crisis. In conjunction with the launch of the initiative, Herbalife Nutrition also announced its partnership with Feed the Children, a nonprofit organization committed to defeating childhood hunger worldwide.Feed the Children has designated September as Defeat Hunger Month and as a lead partner of Nutrition for Zero Hunger, Herbalife Nutrition will support their programs to help end hunger around the world. “The Nutrition for Zero Hunger initiative addresses key pandemic problems and through our work with our partners, like Feed the Children, we hope to build a world where everyone has access to quality food and nutrition,” said Alan Hoffman, Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Affairs. Watch the video below to find out more about the Nutrition for Zero Hunger initiative:  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. As a leader in the global nutrition, Herbalife Nutrition was founded, nearly 40 years ago, on the importance and value of good nutrition, providing a reliable source of nutritious food through a network of independent distributors to customers worldwide. “Feed the Children is proud to partner with Herbalife Nutrition to address the important issue of childhood hunger,” said Travis Arnold, Feed the Children president and CEO. “The problem cannot be tackled alone. We know that when we combine our efforts, we will have a greater impact on the lives of families who need us most around the world.” Feed the Children is an organisation that is dedicated to supporting families and communities by providing food assistance and resources to help achieve stable lives in 10 countries internationally, including Uganda, Kenya and Malawi. In 2018, Feed the Children distributed 88.6 million pounds of food and essentials, working with community partners to support 6.5 million people globally. In addition to supporting strategic partnerships, Nutrition for Zero Hunger aligns with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goal #2, which calls for bold action to end hunger in all its forms by 2030, as well as solutions to achieve food security and improve nutrition worldwide. Through the R30 million pledge, the Company will:   Hoffman added, “we have seen how healthy nutrition impacts people’s lives, and we are committed to supporting this critical need to vulnerable populations all around the world.”