JOHANNESBURG – When Finance Minister Tito Mboweni gives his Budget Speech for the 2019/20 tax year, I hope to hear examples of how the government will work towards boosting South Africa’s ranking in The World Bank’s annual Doing Business Report. Given that India climbed 23 positions in this year’s ranking and that South Africa ranked 32nd just a decade ago, this goal is highly achievable. Making it easier to do business will ignite the growth of our Small & Medium Businesses and nurture the entrepreneurial flame of South African business builders. As the President and government recognise, Small & Medium Businesses have a vital role to play in job and wealth creation. Against the backdrop of a tight economy, the government should be looking at ways to reduce red tape and to enable them to focus on growth rather than compliance. Here are a few of the issues keeping Small & Medium Business owners awake at night, and some ways government could address their pain points:   The red-tape and the complexity of the regulations—and delays in customs clearance—are onerous for smaller importers and exporters. Much more could be done to streamline export and import paperwork and checks, in turn, allowing businesses to focus on adding value to global customers rather than getting certificates and filing papers.   We may learn more in the Budget Speech about how the government will address the power crisis in the years to come. It is a challenge that demands difficult (and potentially unpopular) decisions to be made for a long-term turnaround. In the shorter term, perhaps tax relief should be on the agenda for businesses that will face existential challenges as a result of the power crisis. Or, could government look at zero-rating the VAT generators, solar lighting and other solutions that could help small businesses to cope when the lights go out? Supporting small business heroes In the 2018/9 Budget Speech and other government addresses last year, a number of measures were announced to support Small & Medium Businesses:   Hopefully, we’ll hear some progress updates about those initiatives in the Budget Speech. The Finance Minister has an opportunity this year to support our small business heroes and, in so doing, catalyse the level of inclusive growth we need to create a just and prosperous society. Pieter Bensch is the executive vice-president at Sage Africa & Middle East. The views expressed here are his own. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE