DURBAN - The IAB SA has launched an exciting new series of strategically aligned events for the digital industry. Held in partnership with Meltwater and The Radisson Hotel Group, the series will give the industry smart, actionable and meaningful insights to make better digital decisions that are rooted in global best practice and industry trends. Paula Hulley, Chief Executive of the IAB SA said, "One of our core goals as the IAB for 2019 and beyond is to empower the media and marketing industry in South Africa to thrive in the digital economy. The best way to kick start this is through targeted, honest and insight-driven conversations – we can all learn from one another". Each event in the series will be hosted by The Radisson Hotel Group in a relaxed and stylish space that promotes conversation and networking. Guests will spend one and a half hours listening to insights from and networking with industry leaders and future industry leaders on topics relevant to the South African digital landscape. Julia Nill, Account Executive at Meltwater Africa, says, “As a media intelligence company, we understand the power of data when it comes to strategic decision-making, especially when tracking the impact of online PR and marketing campaigns. The ever-increasing role of AI in separating insights from data however, makes the Future of Work a topic that’s critical for any executive who wants to stay competitive in today’s world. As such, we’re thrilled to be sponsoring the IAB Insights series and facilitating a conversation around something that’s going to affect us all.” For the first quarter, the series is focusing on ‘The Future of Work.’ The first event was held on 24th January, with two to follow on 22 February and 6 March. Lindy Rudman, Portfolio Manager for Digital Media at Vodacom added, "The way that employees use digital tools in the workplace is profoundly changing. The IAB’s recognition of this, and their concerted effort to bring together industry leaders to discuss their challenges and opportunities, empowered those at the event to apply the insights to their own businesses". Following The Future of Work discussions in the first quarter, the series will move onto Building The Basics in Q2, Benchmarking Digital Excellence in Q3 and Integrated Attribution in Q4. Paula concluded, "We are grateful to our event sponsors and the industry leaders that have given of their time in order to further discussions around digital marketing in South Africa. Following the success of January’s inaugural event, we look forward to more insightful, constructive discussions where we collaborate for the future of a better digital landscape in South Africa". BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE