JOHANNESBURG – What do the three different topics of fish, citizen-based social monitoring, and youth empowerment have in common? All are associated with local non-profit organisations (NPOs) that are leveraging technology in exciting ways to make a difference in under-resourced communities. At the recent Trialogue Business in Society Conference 2019 (Subs: 16-17 April, Johannesburg), representatives of three NPOs – ABALOBI, the Black Sash and Zlto ‒ shared information on how their IT innovations are changing lives. The short list for the Trialogue Partnership Pitch comprised:     The speakers not only raised awareness of their projects among the audience of several hundred leading development sector professionals, but also received valuable feedback from a panel of seasoned industry professionals on how to leverage and grow their offerings. The panel consisted of Rudi Matjokana, Vodacom Business managing executive for public enterprise; Jak Koseff, chief director leading the Programme Management Office for Tshepo 1 Million – the Gauteng provincial government’s youth empowerment programme; and Samantha Barnard, deputy director of the Phambano Technology Development Centre. Young Allan van der Meulen from Mitchells Plain in Cape Town, ambassador for the Zlto project at RLabs, gathered the most support when the audience voted for the project they would like to hear more about. Trialogue will feature Zlto in the 2019 edition of its highly-regarded annual Business in Society Handbook, and will co-ordinate introductions and networking opportunities. The consultancy has a well-established reputation for expertise and research on corporate social responsibility issues, and the holistic role of business in society. “It was an incredible opportunity to be flown to the conference and have the chance to talk about the project on such a platform,” said van der Meulen, who has already been named an Ashoka Changemaker and Seedstars 2017 runner-up. “It was great for Zlto brand awareness and to make new contacts that we want to leverage. We also got valuable feedback from the evaluation panel and plan to build on this.” BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE