Photography - humankind’s most trusted companion for recording treasured memories, has evolved through a hundred years’ worth of inventiveness. In 1839, the daguerreotype process gave birth to the first era of photography. In these early days of photography, images were created on films and with silver compound. About a century later, people invented a way to interpret light with electrons, and heralded the second generation of photography: digital photography. But now, Huawei - using the latest, most cutting-edge digital imaging technology - is ready to disrupt the status quo that was established more than 40 years ago. The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro feature the most sophisticated and ingenious design ever seen in the history of mobile imaging technologies. Among the numerous breakthrough innovations are the revolutionary HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor and SuperZoom Lens, which lets the consumers capture the most amazing photos and videos, and do so with a small, compact device and without the hassle of having to change lens’, tweaking camera parameters, or editing in post. Hundreds of millions of people are already using Huawei’s devices to chronicle their lives, turning fleeting moments into everlasting art. In 2018, Huawei hosted the second annual Next-Image Awards. Receiving more than 400,000 submissions from contestants hailing from more than 130 countries, the competition quickly became one of the most popular smartphone photography contests in the world. Looking back on the history of HUAWEI P Series, from the HUAWEI P9’s Dual Camera to standout Portrait Mode of the HUAWEI P10 and the HUAWEI P20 Pro’s first-of-its-kind 40MP Leica Triple Camera, photography has become a signature feature throughout the whole line-up. Now, the HUAWEI P30 Series rewrites the rules of mobile photography. The new HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor rewrites the rules of optical sensing technology and image quality in mobile photography; the SuperZoom Lens rewrites the rules of zoom in ultra-compact devices; and the HUAWEI Time-of-Flight (ToF) Camera rewrites the rules of 3D photography in mobile devices. And just like that, the HUAWEI P30 Pro ascended to the top spot on the DxOMark Mobile leaderboard, the spot that the HUAWEI P20 Pro has for a year after revolutionizing smartphone camera performance. The HUAWEI P30 Series not only lets Huawei break its own records, but also set a new standard for videography. This line-up can be considered the first mobile “Super Camera Phone” in the world and may just bring us into a new era of smartphone photography. Super Camera Phone: Rewriting the Rules of Photography See the Unseen: Leica Quad Camera System Introducing the most advanced mobile imaging technology seen on a Huawei device yet - the Leica Quad Camera System. Inside the slim body of the HUAWEI P30 Pro is a 40MP primary camera with a HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor, a 20MP ultra-wide angle camera, an 8MP telephoto camera fitted with a SuperZoom Lens and a HUAWEI ToF Camera. The all-new sensor, lens arrangement, image signal processor (ISP) and neural processing unit (NPU) work in tandem to capture incredible photos and videos. The HUAWEI P30 Series features the following camera breakthroughs: * HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor: The revolutionary sensor supports the highest ISO rating of all of smartphones. The HUAWEI P30 has a main aperture of f/1.8, but the f/1.6 aperture on HUAWEI P30 Pro takes it to an even higher level. The unprecedented photosensitivity enhances the camera’s capability to capture details in darkness, allowing it to produce clean, sharp images. * HUAWEI SuperZoom Lens (HUAWEI P30 Pro only): The innovative periscope design enables Huawei to incorporate the telephoto camera into an extremely slim device. It supports 5x optical zoom, 10x hybrid zoom and a never-before-seen 50x digital zoom, bringing the farthest of objects right in front of your eyes. * Ultra-wide Angle Camera: The ultra-wide angle camera takes in a much wider perspective to greatly enhance the feeling of spaciousness in images. Capable of focusing on objects as close as 2.5cm, the camera delivers some of the most impactful captures. * HUAWEI ToF Camera (HUAWEI P30 Pro only): The HUAWEI ToF Camera has rich bokeh and sophisticated depth information-capturing capabilities. Supporting multi-level, depth-of-field effects, portrait segmentation that identifies details as small as a strand of hair and accurate 3D modelling of small objects to deliver a highly-realistic, AR photography experience. * Advanced Image Stabilization: On top of HUAWEI AI image stabilization (AIS), the telephoto camera equipped on the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro supports optical image stabilization (OIS). The primary camera on the HUAWEI P30 Pro also features Huawei’s most advanced OIS motor yet, allowing people to easily capture perfect photos and videos. i. Photosensitivity Exceeding Human Eyes Photography is more than art; it is science. As such, it involves some of the most sophisticated sensor technologies. Breaking away from the conventional, Huawei employs a new sensor technology with an innovative filter to create a revolutionary camera system. Even with the faintest glimmer of light, the sensor can work its magic to produce a bright image. Reimagined Color Filter Array (CFA) for Better Light Sensitivity Light does much more than illuminate; from light, we see colors. Almost all the colours on the visible spectrum can be obtained by mixing red, green and blue - the three primary colours of light. In the simplest terms, digital camera sensors capture images by breaking down light and recording it. Each pixel is filtered by an RGGB Bayer filter to record one of the colors. The red filter blocks all but red lights; same goes for green and blue filters. Digital imaging technology has evolved at a breakneck pace in the past over more than 40 years, but sensor innovation in particular seems to have come to a standstill. The light that passes through filters loses intensity, a problem that is amplified by the size (or the lack thereof) of sensors typically found in today’s smartphones. The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro are both equipped with a large 1/1.7-inch RYYB CFA for their main camera. Compared with other CFAs, this CFA uses a different design. Instead of green pixels, it adopts yellow pixels, which means both green and red light can move past the filter and reach the sensor. This improves the amount of light reaching the sensor by up to 40 percent, yielding higher photosensitivity and affording an opportunity for users to unleash their potential. Re-designed from ground up, the HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor delivers greater optical performance and is more responsive than ever. Compared to competitive devices, such as the iPhone XS Max with an ISO lower than 6400, the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro have an ISO of 204,800 and 409,600 respectively, leading by a large margin. Equipped with this sensor, the night becomes the home court for the HUAWEI P30 Series, and framing is easier than ever before. With one touch of the shutter button, users can easily shoot incredible photos and videos at night, with minimal compromise on colour, clarity and detail. Huawei’s move from green to yellow pixels sets the scene for the revolution to come, one that will rewrite the rules of sensor technology and imaging quality. The HUAWEI P30 Series is bringing about a paradigm shift in camera technologies. From the purpose-built Leica lenses and HUAWEI SuperSpectrum sensor, to the ISP and NPU embedded in Kirin 980 and Huawei’s proprietary image sensing and processing algorithms, Huawei’s end-to-end camera system is one of the most complex camera systems in the history of smartphone photography, and perhaps even digital photography.. The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro’s Super Night Mode is underpinned by their breakthroughs in light sensitivity, low noise capture and high colour reproduction. Double Image Stabilization Providing Peace of Mind While the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro possess incredible imaging capabilities, they also feature powerful image stabilization technologies. The HUAWEI P30 is equipped with an OIS-supported telephoto camera; the HUAWEI P30 Pro supports OIS on both of its cameras: the main and the telephoto. The powerful primary camera module features the most advanced custom OIS motor to support lens shift and image stabilization. The OIS motor, gyroscope and accelerometer work in tandem to estimate and compensate for device movement in real time. This greatly improves the stability and the success rate of getting usable footage, and this stabilization technology works for photos and videos. For longer exposure and to cover more intensive movements, the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro have another trick up their sleeves - HUAWEI AI Image Stabilization (AIS). This feature taps into the NPU to adjust, pair and merge multiple frames taken in quick succession to improve final image quality. HUAWEI AIS now works together with OIS as one unified solution, delivering the best stabilization Huawei has ever offered. Whether it is a long exposure shot, a quick snapshot, or a video, the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro let people take stable shots with ease. Impressive Wide Aperture Living up to its reputation, Leica produces some of the highest quality lenses on the market. The HUAWEI P30 Pro is fitted with an f/1.6 aperture. Up from the f/1.8 lens on its predecessor, the wider aperture lets in more light for better low-light performance. As a result, Huawei sets the standard for smartphone camera quality even higher than before. Combining the HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor, an f/1.6 aperture and powerful image stabilization technologies, the HUAWEI P30 Pro enables users to shoot quality photos with incredible image quality with minimal effort. It harks back to the nature of photography and inspires creativity to help realize a person’s innermost artistic ideals. Extravagant city lights and low-noise starry skies can all be captured brightly with gorgeous details on the HUAWEI P30 Pro.  ii. A Breakthrough in Zooming Technology (HUAWEI P30 Pro only) With the HUAWEI P30 Pro, beautiful scenery can be captured, no matter how far the distance. Let the smartphone capture what human eyes can’t see. The HUAWEI P30 Pro features a SuperZoom Lens, fitted into the ultra slim chassis with an innovative periscope design. The extreme zooming capability brings faraway objects into view. A Critical Turn The height of a smartphone camera lens is magnitudes shorter than its full-frame ounterparts. So how does it see farther? Perhaps seeing at another angle would help. The HUAWEI P30 Pro is equipped with a telephoto camera featuring a periscope design that uses a prism element to bend light at a 90-degree angle. By doing so, the sensor can be fitted in the chassis and support 5x optical zoom, 10x hybrid zoom and 50x  digital zoom. The zoom is used to magnify, and when an object is magnified, so are camera shakes. To minimize the camera shake at high levels of magnification, Huawei added OIS support to the SuperZoom lens on the HUAWEI P30 Pro, making handheld shots more stable than ever. With it, the unreachable becomes reachable. From the golden sun sinking into the horizon, a full moon hanging high in the sky, soaring jets at air shows, lions relaxing under trees and your favorite artist performing on stage - nothing escapes from the SuperZoom Lens. The periscope design calls for a high level of precision in the placement of the prism element and the refraction - a level of accuracy that is almost twice that of standard optics. With a high standard also comes complexity, both in manufacturing and quality control. Leveraging its system and industry chain integration capabilities, Huawei’s R&D team successfully prototyped the concept and then brought it to market on a mass production scale. iii. A Camera that Can Gauge Depth (HUAWEI P30 Pro only) The human eyes are endowed with the ability to see the world as it is. Parallax allows us to gain depth perception and assess distance. The HUAWEI P30 Pro takes a step further than the dual camera, which uses a bionic dual-lens camera to gauge depth, and incorporates a new UAWEI ToF Camera to more accurately assess distance and capture depth information than previous implementations that used either the RGB or monochrome cameras. The HUAWEI ToF Camera enables a clear and accurate separation of a subject from the background and makes a whole new category of 3D photography possibilities. Professional Bokeh The HUAWEI ToF camera and portrait segmentation algorithm work in tandem to support accurate portrait segmentation that capture seven minute details like strands of hair. It does a better job of showcasing layers and adds an artistic quality to the photos. Based on the HUAWEI ToF Camera’s defocusing capability, the HUAWEI P30 Pro supports multi-level bokeh. The further away an object is from the focal plane, the more intense the bokeh, adding a sense of depth to the images. When the focus is on a subject, the camera will create a creamy bokeh effect in the background. A shallow depth-of-field also adds softness to lights, giving them a mesmerizing character while balancing sharpness and blurriness. Light sources are also blurred to create an artful effect similar to those beautiful light spots, as well as vivid background bokeh effects that are more natural and rich with layers. Ushering in the Age of 3D Photography The HUAWEI ToF Camera features an unrivaled ability to accurately perceive depth. With HUAWEI AR Measure, people can accurately measure the length, height, area and volume. The HUAWEI P30 Pro supports AR Core and AR Engine. The dual-engine solution enables vertex and edge association and smart data rounding. Furthermore, 3D Live Maker on the HUAWEI P30 Pro supports small-scale AR modelling. HUAWEI AR Measure and 3D Live Maker will be available on AppGallery and Google Play Store at a later date. iv. The Ultra-wide Angle and Macro Lens that Sees All New to the HUAWEI P Series, an ultra-wide angle lens is fitted to both the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro. The performance of the lens on the HUAWEI P30 is equivalent to a 17mm full-frame lens, while the one on the HUAWEI P30 Pro is equivalent to a 16mm full-frame counterpart. The ultra-wide angle lens has a unique ability to add a feeling of spaciousness to photos and videos. Although it is positioned as an ultra-wide angle lens, it also supports photography at macro distances. The lens can focus on objects that are as close as 2.5cm from it. From breathtaking scenery and architectural wonders, to heartwarming family portraits and a venture into the microscopic world—this is the lens that does it all. v. Complex Processing Behind Lens It takes more than a Quad Camera system to produce perfect photos and videos - a powerful cognitive power is also required. The HUAWEI P30 and HUWAEI P30 Pro are equipped with Kirin 980, a mobile AI chipset, featuring a Dual-NPU and Huawei’s fourth-generation ISP. Compared to the previous generation, the Dual-NPU supports 120 percent greater image recognition, while the ISP supports 46 percent better pixel throughput. The Kirin 980 also supports regional HDR color reproduction, multi-pass noise reduction and features a dedicated pipeline for videos. There’s more to a photo than light and shadows - image processing also plays a part in creating a great shot. The moment the shutter is fired, a series of complex processes takes place. Smart scene detection, facial detection and tracking, image stabilization, depth perception, RAW image noise reduction, and RGB colour reproduction all take place concurrently to produce a final image. Taking the Beauty of Photography to the Next Level vi. Super Night Mode Since the invention of the camera, the technology - be it a DSLR or a module on smartphones - has always been limited by the shutter. A slow shutter means longer exposure, which makes the camera vulnerable to shakes. Almost any shot that takes more than a few seconds of exposure requires a tripod, or you’ll get a blurry mess. But with Super Night Shot, Huawei turned that certainty on its head. This mode combines HUAWEI AIS as well as object and edge detection to filter and adjust for camera movements caused by shaky hands. The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro support an updated Super Night Mode. Equipped with a HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor, ISP and Dual-NPU, and supported by the new HUAWEI AIS+OIS solution, every frame taken across the long exposure on the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro is better with superior colors, dynamic range and clarity, and look more authentic and vibrant. Combined, these processes enable an exposure of 3-8 seconds and produce the most stunning images in low-light settings. The updated Super Night Mode eliminates the need to tinker with camera parameters and edit in post to achieve great picture quality in low-light scenarios. vii. Super Silky Water Besides helping with capturing amazing night shots, a slow shutter is also great at producing exotic photographic effects. The updated HUAWEI AIS brings more handheld long exposure modes so that people don’t have to carry a tripod with them. For example, in locations with flowing water like a waterfall or a water fountain, long exposure can produce images that feature water with a gorgeous, velvety characteristic. The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro practically throw out every rule in the book by enabling people to take handheld long exposure shots. The feature is so intuitive that even amateur users can master it - all they need to do is get creative and they can easily produce frame-worthy masterpieces. viii. AI HDR+ Backlit Portraits The HUAWEI P30 Series’ Portrait Mode and Auto Mode on the rear camera and the front camera feature targeted optimizations for low light and backlighting scenarios. The latest flagship devices leverage machine learning trained with tens of thousands of professionally taken backlit and low-light images, and accurate portrait segmentation to realise targeted brightness enhancement on the faces of subjects, improving the sense of depth of the portraits taken on them. With AI superimposing several frames taken at different exposures to brighten the image, it’s almost like having a professional gaffer following you around, shining a light on you as you snap photos or selfies with the most realistic and natural lighting. ix. Portrait Mode The HUAWEI ToF Camera enables the HUAWEI P30 Pro to simulate the large aperture effect. The natural-looking, shallow depth-of-field  effecthighlights the subject and helps the HUAWEI P30 Pro capture quality images. The depth perception of the HUAWEI ToF Camera synergises with deep learning algorithms to support precise image segmentation and softer, more natural bokeh. From a shirt’s crease to facial contours to a single hair - the HUAWEI ToF Camera can precisely highlight any subject from the background. The bokeh produced on the HUAWEI P30 Pro is rich, yet delicate. With the multi-level bokeh, the images come out incredibly artistic and full of layers. Light sources can also be artistically blurred. The HUAWEI P30 Series sports a 32MP front camera with deep-learning algorithm-assisted facial recognition and image segmentation support. It can make photos look more natural even in overexposed and backlit scenarios. Redefining Smartphone Videography x. Super Night Mode Now Supports Videos Sometimes stills don’t do justice to nighttime scenery - the dynamic light streaks that light up the night sometimes need videos to capture their full glory. However, videos cannot rely on long-exposure or multi-frame composition - the methods employed on stills - to turn up brightness. Instead, they need more powerful hardware. Benefited by the HUAWEI SuperSpectrum Sensor’s superb photosensitivity and dynamic range, and the f/1.6 large aperture lens allowing more light in, the HUAWEI P30 Pro retains great vision at low-light. The “night vision” capability lets the HUAWEI P30 Pro capture videos with even the faintest hint of light, from concerts, city skyline at night, to even the instant a candle is blown out. xi. Long Zoom to Exceed Human Eyes The SuperZoom Lens on the HUAWEI P30 Pro can be used for both stills and videos. Optical zoom provides magnification at minimal quality loss. The SuperZoom Lens is combined with OIS to meet the video-capturing needs of today’s users. With it, people can capture the best moments in life on video that records as accurately as you experienced them. xii. Record Dynamic Footage with Dual Image Stabilization Technology In video shoots, the lens is always on the move, so camera shakes are almost inevitable. The HUAWEI P30 Pro uses HUAWEI AIS+OIS to deliver professional image stabilization support, enabling steady videos while reducing the need for time-consuming fixes in post. No matter if it is used for brisk walking, on a bumpy ride or even engaging in extreme sports like bike motocross, the HUAWEI P30 Pro can capture videos that look just like what they see. xiii. HUAWEI Dual-View Video Doubles the Fun The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro bring a refreshing way to shoot and view videos. HUAWEI Dual-View Video uses multiple cameras simultaneously to capture videos. This allows consumers to capture the full view of a scene while also capturing a close-up, showing two perspectives at once on one screen. In this mode, the camera located closer to the lower portion of the device captures everything with a wide field of view, while the camera installed more closely to the top of the dual camera captures a close-up. The user may adjust the level of magnification as well. This mode, with its capability to capture dual perspectives, lends itself to capturing large-scale events such as sporting matches and concerts. xiv. AI Movie Mode - Your Personal Hollywood Production Crew Leveraging the extreme field of view of the ultra-wide angle camera, the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro support 21:9 cinematic aspect ratio videos. Rendering every frame of the footage, the AI chip supports many features, as if there’s a Hollywood production crew working in the background. One of the cinematic effects includes AI Color, which accurately desaturates the colors of everything in the footage but a human subject of choice, adding a dramatic highlight to the subject. There are also numerous cinematic filters to choose from, including Nostalgia, Fresh, Suspense and Background Blur. xv. AI Video Editor Adds Flair to Your Videos Videos shot on smartphones are perfect for sharing on social media and they’ve quickly become some of the most popular content available. However, not everyone has the video editing chops to quickly create impressive and unique videos. That’s why Huawei added the AI Video Editor to this lineup. A powerful video studio, AI Video Editor supports smart video editing and smart beauty scoring, allowing it to intelligently assess footage from subjective, objective and artful videography perspectives in 12 dimensions. Beyond just facial recognition, the AI Video Editor can identify movements of human subjects, selecting highlight frames from the footage, automatically adding background music and special effects such as time-lapse, slow motion, freeze, comics and video collage.This puts the power to freely edit and render videos into the hands of consumers, but provides the professional assistance that can enable them to edit easily and share quickly.   Industrial Design: Streamlined, Double-Curved Design A Design that Speaks to the Soul As master of architecture Tadao Ando once said, exquisite designs speak to the soul. Embodying Huawei’s pursuit of advanced technology and aesthetics, the HUAWEI P Series elevates premium design to new heights. Designed with the concept of “The Aesthetics Design” HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro exemplify the beauty of nature. The backs of Huawei’s latest flagships capture the ethereal beauty of salt flats, evoking the images of the breathtaking lake. xvi. Aesthetics of Time: Breathing Crystal The radiant beauty of salt flats is accentuated by the many faces it shows at different times of the day. These are encapsulated in the numerous vibrant colors that the HUAWEI P30 Series has to offer. The beauty of the golden morning sun is transposed into the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro through the Amber Sunrise variant. Breathing Crystal reflects the time when sun is held high and the salt flats extend all the way into the wild. And when darkness envelops the land, the salt flats reflect the glimmers of stars, inspiring the creation of Black and Aurora. Huawei has gone through several hundred coating tests to replicate the beautiful scenes of the salt flats on the HUAWEI P30 Series. By using an inkjet micron-grade printing process that is capable of producing the thickest coatings to bring the colors to life, Huawei created the coating of the Breathing Crystal variant with 15 processes, including the application of nine nano optical films to create the gradient segment. xvii. Aesthetics of Space: An Intersection of the Tangible and Intangible A diamond’s lustre is all the work of an artisan. The top and bottom chamfers of the HUAWEI P30 Pro are precisely machined with a diamond cutting process that gives them a premium smooth finish texture. Two panes of double-curved glass form an invisible barrier, enveloping and extending to the mid-frame of the HUAWEI P30 Pro, creating a uni-body look that is secured against the elements with IP68. Like previous HUAWEI P Series devices, the backs of the HUAWEI P30 Series resemble a compact camera, especially when held horizontally. A Full-View Display is More than Meets the Eye The HUAWEI P30 Pro features a new generation of FullView display that supports a resolution of up to 2340x1080, so that everything on every corner of the screen is filled to the brim with detail. This panel also features impeccable saturation and contrast ratio. The HUAWEI P30 Pro also adopts a curved screen design that uses a flexible OLED panel. The two sides of the screen naturally bend downwards towards the edge of the frame, which dissolves into the viewing experience for a borderless screen. xviii. A Multifunctional Display that Provides Sights and Sound To deliver a great earpiece audio experience that is on par with the viewing experience, the HUAWEI P30 Pro is equipped with HUAWEI Acoustic Display Technology. It eliminates the need for a telephone receiver grill on the side of screen, allowing for the design to carry even slimmer bezels. The sound is generated from vibrations of the screen, so the mid-frame is barely affected, making it a more superior approach compared to the takes that other manufacturers adopt. The vibrations are also less noticeable on the back of the device compared to those of a physical speaker, while producing a similar audio quality. Vocals are also clearer and more pronounced on the HUAWEI P30 Pro as well. HUAWEI Acoustic Display Technology supports a wide sound-emitting area. In areas with low ambient noise such as the elevator or the classroom, call sounds are more focused with the screen pressed against the user’s face. Notably, a proprietary Hi-Fi chip is embedded in the HUAWEI P30 to ensure high quality audio and faithful reproduction of details. xix. An Extraordinary Custom Camera The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro feature a special customized front camera. This all new 32MP camera not only delivers outstanding image quality, but consists of highly miniaturized components including lens, mount, filter, CMOS sensor, and flexible printed cables (FPC), all housed in a very small hole, an opening much smaller than conventional cameras. This level of integration and miniaturization leaves the screen with more area to do what it does best - display exciting content that keeps you at the edge of your seat. xx. Bank-Level Security The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro feature an In-Screen Fingerprint sensor. The In-Screen Fingerprint Sensor takes advantage of the ultra-wide angle 3p lens and a large aperture working together with pixel photosensitivity enhancing the Microlens to improve fingerprint recognition by 10 percent and light entering the sensor by 30 percent. The new generation sensor also supports auto ring-tuning focus, improving autofocus accuracy by 35 percent to ensure every sensor on the device lands the most precise focus. The In-Screen Fingerprint sensor uses the industry-leading multithreaded dual-matching algorithm to improve unlock speed by 30 percent. It simply works with one tap. It synergizes with the fluid unlock animation and hover sensing, vastly improving the user experience of fingerprint unlock. Introducing EMUI 9.1 - Enable a Quality Life Digital life has become daily life. A smartphone and smartphone operating system are expected to sync together and provide an efficient, balanced and user-friendly experience to consumers. Following the philosophy of “Enable a Quality Life,” Huawei’s latest custom operating system, EMUI 9.1, incorporates groundbreaking technologies to enhance basic functions. Themes and icons have been updated to match the advanced all-scenario AI to provide a wonderful experience in looks and practice. Simple and Tidy Interface xxi. Aesthetic Design Language Inspired by the concept of timeless aesthetics, the new EMUI 9.1 design captures the twists of light and shadow to bring ephemeral beauty to the user. The latest EMUI 9.1 interface design recreates the form of different materials at different moments with hundreds of pigment adjustments and blending. Everything from the gentle flow of soft silk to the dynamic crash of water on a shore, Huawei has captured some of the most beautiful and flexible moments to provide a soothing, natural user experience. xxii. Minimally Skeuomorphic App icon design is a crucial part of the mobile phone User Interface. EMUI 9.1 uses a minimally skeuomorphic design for major app icons, extracting design elements from images that consumers often see in their everyday life. By applying these elements to the icons, consumers can grasp the key message at a glance and understand the app function immediately. xxiii. The Adaptive Display of Logos and Backgrounds Huawei’s UI designers are working to let consumers easily spot app icons on whatever wallpapers they like. EMUI 9.1 features readjusted color contrast that leaves a clear boundary between icons and wallpaper making them easy to spot regardless of background design. xxiv. From Five Columns to Four Columns: Larger, Better App Icons In order to provide consumers with a more intuitive UX, Huawei has updated the app icon design in EMUI 9.1, improving the aesthetics while making them 10 percent bigger. Compared with the previous design where each row carries five icons, now there are four apps in each row by default so that the interface is less crowded and the user will find it easier to tap on any app. In addition, the new design leaves a bigger space between the apps and the screen edges, minimizing mistouches - improving the user experience of gesture navigation. And big icons are something that young users tend to like better. Fundamental Optimizations that Elevate the Overall User Experience xxv. Extendable Read-Only File System Committed in operating system innovation, Huawei has optimized Android-based system from the ground up to improve smartphone performance. In 2016, EMUI 5.1 launched alongside the HUAWEI Mate 9, and was the first to replace the conventional EXT4 file system with Flash-Friendly File System (F2FS), improving the operating smoothness by 20 percent. Compared with Linux’s EXT4 developed for old mechanical hard drives, the F2FS is a customized system for flash storage that greatly enhances read/write performance even after extended use. Three years later, Google applied F2FS in its Pixel 3 flagship smartphone, and other manufacturers soon followed suit. This represented one of Huawei’s biggest contributions to the Android ecosystem. The F2FS restructures the user partition in the Android system, but EROFS on EMUI 9.1 also converts the system partition into read-only files. The advantages of EROFS include:  Nothing proves performance better than figures. Comparing the HUAWEI P30 Series to the HUAWEI P20 Series, the system operation responds 69 percent faster, apps launch 52 percent faster, and the operating fluidity is improved by 52 percent. Comparing the HUAWEI P30 to the iPhone XS, the top 15 overseas apps (such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Uber) launch 1x faster. xxvii. GPU Turbo 3.0 Delivers a Turbocharged Gaming Experience The HUAWEI P30 Series is the first to support GPU Turbo 3.0. The latest iteration of the graphics solution not only further optimizes the performance of games, but also supports more games than ever. The third generation solution features an expanded whitelist, adding 70 games (19 overseas games and 51 Chinese games) to the list. GPU Turbo 3.0 greatly improves efficiency of games in a way that is vastly superior to Huawei’s competitors. Nobody likes lag. The HUAWEI P30 Series supports gaming with AI SIM Switch. When the signal reception of SIM 1 is poor, the system will automatically switch to SIM 2’s network. The transition happens seamlessly with no impact on game play. An Intelligent Lifestyle xxviii. Share Effortlessly with HUAWEI Share OneHop HUAWEI Share revolutionizes device interconnection by making it easy for the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro to connect with smartphones, laptops and wireless printers. Upgrading from EMUI 9.0 photo sharing, the innovative OneHop feature lets the HUAWEI P30 Series connect with the the HUAWEI MateBook with one simple tap. It supports fast transferring of pictures, videos and files. It takes only one minute to transfer 500 pictures and 35 seconds to transfer a video of up to 1GB. The latest HUAWEI Share OneHop enables users to extract texts from images, share content with a shared clipboard as well as record the PC screen on the phone side. Tasks like editing content shot on mobile, or sharing exciting achievements in games with family and friends, are made easier and more efficient thanks to HUAWEI Share OneHop. xxix. HUAWEI AR Measure: Size Up the World with Smartphone The HUAWEI P30 Pro combines its unique HUAWEI ToF Camera and leading AR technologies to support HUAWEI AR Measure, a handy app that transforms the device into a measurement tool. It can not only be used for measuring the length of lines and area of surfaces, but also volume of objects as well as a person’s height, thanks to its facial recognition capability. The margin of error is around one percent only. xxx. Tap to Unlock for Convenient and Brand-New Driving Experience HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro take another step forward to assist users to live a secure, and convenient life. Huawei partnered with BMW (China) and Audi (Europe) for a virtual car key* solution. Instead of taking a physical key with them, users only need to hold their device against their BMW or Audi to lock/unlock the doors and start the engine, which is very convenient. In addition, the car owner can share the car key with up to five other people so that they can enjoy Huawei’s handy experience as well. Huawei’s car key solution complies with the CCC1.0 standards issued by Car Connectivity Consortium. User credentials and logic are saved securely in a dedicated security chip, inaccessible and unable to be duplicated by third-party apps, which ensures users with a secure car key solution experience. * Note: For more information about BMW and Audi models, please visit their websites or 4S dealership stores. xxxi. Digital Wellbeing Because smartphones have become a part of modern life, EMUI 9.1 includes a few features that aim to promote a balanced digital lifestyle for people and their family members. These features include screen time statistics and management, sleep time management, remote location services and more. The improved suite of digital wellbeing features can be used to manage use time, apps, downloads, share location and trace phones. For instance, it can set a limit on screen use time, restrict gaming or specify use times, and set the screen to display in greyscale before bedtime. xxxii. First Smartphone Can Sync Fitness Data with A Treadmill Not everyone uses a wearable device in the gym. But without these devices, people often lack the means to record or share fitness data. With the rise of smart gym equipment, EMUI 9.1 introduces a new distributed, synchronized system that connects smartphones with equipment via NFC. Under this new system, smartphones cansync with smart treadmills and get real time data on metrics such as the distance, time elapsed, speed and calorie count. The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro are the first devices on the market to support this functionality. This data can also be shared with wearables such as smart watches for fitness coaching features. This feature works with treadmills from top brands including Johnson Health Tech, Precor, Life Fitness, CORE Health & Fitness (Star Trac, StairMaster and Schwinn included), and more. xxxiii. Connecting with Children: Video Calls with Huawei Children’s Watch 3 Pro With HUAWEI P30 Series smartphones, users can video call the Huawei Children’s Watch 3 Pro simply by calling from the native Contacts app. These calls take priority over telephone calls and will not be interrupted by incoming calls. With this function, parents can stay connected to their children anytime and anywhere. Powerful Performance that Rivals Even Desktops Flagship Chipset Delivering Flagship Performance Powering the core functionalities of the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro is Kirin 980, Huawei’s most powerful smartphone chipset yet. As the one of the world’s first commercial 7nm chipsets, Kirin 980 packs 6.9 billion transistors to realize enhanced performance and efficiency. Kirin 980 features a cutting-edge process technology, a revolutionary architecture, and a Dual-NPU. Kirin 980 is the world’s first commercial chipset to have ARM Cortex-A76 based cores embedded in them, delivering performance rivalling notebooks. Kirin 980 introduces the Kirin Subsystem and Flex-Scheduling mechanism to deliver the best efficiency. It also is the first chipset to employ Mali-G76 as its GPU, which combines with the innovative GPU optimization technology to enable smartphones to support even the most graphics-intensive games while delivering maximum frame rates, outstanding gaming experience and battery efficiency. No matter if it is used for playing triple-A mobile titles, multitasking, AI Color, or video editing, it handles the task with ease. HUAWEI SuperCool to Keep Temperatures Low and Performance High The powerful chipset enables premium experiences on the HUAWEI P30 Series, but due to the small form factor of today’s smartphones, many of them suffer from cooling and battery issues, dragging the chipset down and preventing it to realize its full potential. Cooling is therefore a key metric that impacts a device’s gaming performance. Sometimes in-game stuttering is not a raw performance issue - but a CPU/GPU cooling issue. The HUAWEI P30 Pro is equipped with HUAWEI SuperCool, a high performance cooling system, which involves an optimized bionic capillary network of heat pipes that help realize a generational cooling performance improvement. Heat is transferred from the SoC to the heat pipe along the z-axis through the thermal compound, and then dissipated as the heat pipes branch out along the y-axis. The heat is further spread out as it travels through the graphene film and graphite sheet along the x- and y-axes. HUAWEI SuperCharge and Wireless Reverse Charge It takes a great smartphone to keep pace with the modern lifestyle - only a smartphone with a long-lasting battery that supports quick charging will do. The HUAWEI P30 Pro features a new generation of HUAWEI SuperCharge, which supports 40W charging - enough to charge the device by 70 percent in 30 minutes. Certified by TÜV Rheinland, the HUAWEI P30 Pro ensures that the fast charge capability is safe for use. The HUAWEI P30 Pro also supports 15W HUAWEI Wireless Quick Charge - just set the device on a charger and it charges quickly. It also features the revolutionary Wireless Reverse Charging technology, allowing the device to be used as a power bank for other wireless charge enabled devices - even friends’ phones! Innovative Telecommunications Technologies xxxiv. New Antenna Configuration The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro use the latest distributed signal system, which separates the combined antenna into two sets of antennas that are layered independently.The two sets of antennas allow for a longer low-frequency set and more space for the mid- and high-frequency set. This configuration effectively improves signal transmission and reception capabilities by 16 percent (~1.5dB). The antenna opening is relocated from the side edges to the two sides by the USB port, minimizing the chance of the user covering the antennas when holding the device. xxxv. Dual-SIM, Dual VoLTE for International Markets The HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro deliver a greater Dual SIM and Dual VoLTE user experience. When someoneutilizes the secondary SIM for VoLTE calls, the primary SIM remains available for 4G internet connectivity. Regardless of which SIM is set as default for voice calls, people can receive in-bound calls to both SIM cards so they will never miss a call again. High Performance Bluetooth Maximizing Signal Coverage HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro support high performance Bluetooth. Featuring industry-leading stability, the Bluetooth functionality effectively solves issues that could impede Bluetooth audio performance, such as insufficient penetration as well as obstruction. It also supports a longer range and lower latency. Even when users place their phones in the bedroom, they can still enjoy uninterrupted Bluetooth headset connectivity and take calls even if they roam around the house. When connected to a Bluetooth peripheral, the HUAWEI P30 and HUAWEI P30 Pro will intelligently monitor the output required for the external device in real-time. Once they detect a need for stronger signals, the smartphones will automatically boost signal transmission by using the Wi-Fi channel. It also features a high performance Bluetooth mode made for audio scenarios, which improves the performance without drawing additional power. Based on the connection status, the devices will dynamically adjust the Bluetooth signals, ensuring that the audio devices will produce high quality sounds. Bluetooth TX capabilities are boosted beyond 6dB, allowing signal to penetrate walls and maintain quality audio even when the user is in another room.