JOHANNESBURG – ​​On 12 April 2019, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) published for comment proposed amendments to its Listings Requirements to strengthen the regulation of primary listings and secondary listings. The proposed changes take account of the public comments raised during the consultation process that kicked off in September 2018 after the JSE released a consultation paper (Paper) on “possible regulatory responses to recent events surrounding listed issuers and trading in their shares”. We set out below an update on how the proposed amendments will affect primary listings. Interested parties are invited by the JSE to submit comments by 24 May 2019. Enhanced corporate governance oversight Initial proposals which are not being pursued A key issue addressed by the Paper was the need for a more robust corporate governance oversight of listed companies. As part of a package of proposals related to this issue, the Paper tested proposed mandatory non-binding advisory shareholders votes on: (i) the corporate governance report; and (ii) board diversity. The JSE, however, decided not to pursue these proposals in light of existing shareholder protections and certain reservations expressed during the consultation process. Specifically, on the vote on board diversity, the JSE found favour with the argument that shareholders already have the power to approve the composition of the board through their vote on directors' appointments. The JSE also elected not to proceed with the proposals for mandatory formal training for members of the audit committee and the company secretary. The JSE agreed with comments that the Companies Act 2008 and the Listings Requirements provided sufficient measures to ensure the quality of these functions. Key proposals in line with the Paper In line with the themes raised and proposals tabled in Paper, the JSE has decided to pursue the following:  New proposed amendments The JSE proposes other key changes that were not originally tabled in the Paper but that the JSE considers necessary to address issues highlighted by the Paper. These include:  Stricter entry criteria for listings on the Main Board The JSE proposes stricter listing criteria for entry on the Main Board. The proposed changes relate to the following criteria:   Some issuers and prospective issuers may heave a sigh a relief at the abandoned proposals originally mooted in the Paper. However, investors concerned by the recent scandals that rocked listed companies may think the proposed amendments do not go far enough to address their concerns. Elodie Maume is a senior professional support lawyer and Colin du Toit is a partner at Webber Wentzel. The views expressed here are theirs. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE