JOHANNESBURG – Interestingly, cash flow management is a major concern for every small business. Though you’re playing smart with your invoice processing accounting and accounts receivable management, cash flow problems can cripple in your business whether you own a small or large business. Small businesses are more vulnerable to cash flow problems. However, it doesn’t mean you cannot control your cash flow problems, not entirely, but up to a little extent by forecasting cash flow every year. So, let’s discuss cash flow forecast in detail: What is a cash flow forecast? A cash flow forecast predicts how much cash will come in and go out of your business in the financial year. This means it involves all your predictable revenues and expenses for that particular period. You can do cash flow forecast yearly or monthly or weekly as well. The process begins by creating an account in which you can add the money that you expect it to be the balance amount. You may consider these funds for revenues, sales, receipts, etc. In the same way, you can subtract some amount from balance, which is the money outflow of your cash flow. You may call these as funds costs, expenses, payments, etc. WATCH:   Importance of cash flow forecasting for businesses If a business faces cash crunches or is out of cash, it will soon become insolvent. And according to researchers, small businesses are the one that is likely to become insolvent due to cash flow issues. This leaves no excuse for business management professionals that they didn’t saw the red flags of financial crises beforehand. This makes cash flow forecast important mainly because of the following:  Things to consider in cash flow forecasting To be honest, cash flow forecasting won’t be easy for small businesses because starting from scratch has never been a cake walk. The best way is to ballpark your expenses and revenues by keeping in mind the following steps:  How to Identify and Fix Cash Flow Problems? If you find that your business is suffering from any of the following symptoms, then it’s high time to take the right action:  How to create an accurate cash flow forecast? The key factor to make your cash flow projection successful is to make it as accurate as possible. It is obvious that you don’t want to make investments and decisions based on inaccurate cash flow forecast. Follow these below-mentioned tips:  Conclusion Cash flow forecasting is going to be an arduous task, yet it is essential. Cash flow forecast not only keeps you updated with how much cash your business will generate but also let you know how much cash you can sustain for business expansion. Avneet Narang is a Marketing Manager at Cogneesol. Her primary focus is to increase brand popularity and global customer base through innovative digital strategies. The views expressed here are hers. BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE