Most South Africans use their smart phones every day for hundreds of different tasks – they’re an essential part of everyday life. Now, thanks to SECURE 911, individuals can use them to tackle one of the biggest challenges of daily living in South Africa – security. Imagine… you are in need of a private ambulance, an armed escort or immediate security assistance. Who do you contact and how? The answer is simple – use SECURE 911. An app designed with your safety in mind, SECURE 911 gives you access to a range of national service providers with just a few taps of your smartphone screen. Assistance is certain - you will not be questioned if you are covered and you won’t have to wait long for help. Just use SECURE 911 and get the help you need when you need it. Safety and security at your fingertips High levels of crime, from theft to home invasions to xenophobic attacks, mean South Africans live in fear. And there is a real need for tools that protect and empower us should the worst happen. SECURE 911 can help place that much-needed sense of safety at your fingertips. Joshen Indarjee, Business Developer at SECURE 911, explains “SECURE 911 is first-world technology developed in relation to South African safety concerns. The app was designed and tweaked to fit the challenges that individuals living in this country face on a daily basis. Just one download and you can use it to set up a neighbourhood watch group, locate your loved one, or get emergency help fast.” One app, many features With SECURE 911, users get access to the following services: 1. Panic SOS: Use the app as a panic button to connect to a 24/7 control room where trained personnel will ensure the appropriate emergency service is dispatched. 2. Overwatch: Set up community chat groups and automated security alerts (such as fence alarm trigger, hijacking, and suspicious activity) for increased security awareness. Overwatch is a global feature, allowing you to stay more connected than ever before. 3. Chats: Engage in online chats with SECURE 911 members in your personal or community contact lists, anytime, anywhere. 4. Monitor: Locate and track your loved ones using a GPS interface, in real time. Monitor also allows businesses to track the whereabouts of their staff or vehicle fleet. How to get SECURE 911? Simply download the app to your smartphone and you’re good to go. What does it cost? Secure 911 will keep you and your family secure in any emergency situation for just R95 per month. A month-to-month service, users can unsubscribe at any time. Free features:   R49 per month: Panic SOS, Armed Response, Medical Assist R89 per month: Panic SOS, Armed Response Services, Medical Assist, Roadside Assist, Home Protect Services, Emergency Evacuation Want more information? Visit WWW.SECURE911.CO.ZA